README.md, before:

# Welcome, intrepid user!

WARNING: THAR BE DRAGONS! Intrigue is currently in ALPHA and requires some effort to get set up. We will be providing installation packages at some point in the future. If you're interested in helping test, please join the chat below:

[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/intrigueio/intrigue-core](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/intrigueio/intrigue-core?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

Intrigue-core is an API-first framework for attack surface discovery. It is primarily used for for Internet (security) reconnaissance and research.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/intrigueio/intrigue-core/develop/doc/home.png" width="700">

To get started, follow the instructions below!

### Setting up a development environment

Follow the appropriate setup guide:

 * Ubuntu Linux - https://github.com/intrigueio/intrigue-core/wiki/Setting-up-a-Test-Environment-on-Ubuntu-Linux
 * Kali Linux - https://github.com/intrigueio/intrigue-core/wiki/Setting-up-a-Test-Environment-on-Kali-Linux
 * OSX - https://github.com/intrigueio/intrigue-core/wiki/Setting-up-a-Test-Environment-on-OSX

### Setting up a development environment using docker & docker-compose:
```
# Clone the repository to your current directory
# Set up your config file first (this is optional, but preferrable)
$ cp config/config.json.default config/config.json

# Build the container and run it
$ docker-compose build && docker-compose up # and we're up on :7777
```

*PROTIP: Using Docker, we can add many sidekiq workers, allowing us to scale horizontally. To set up the Intrigue infrastructure, we've provided a minimal docker-compose.yml. This requires docker and docker-compose. Stop by the chat linked above if you're interested in more details.*

Now that you have a working environment, browse to the web interface.

### Using the web interface

To use the web interface, browse to http://127.0.0.1:7777

Getting started should be pretty straightforward, try running a "dns_brute_sub" task on your domain. Now, try with the "use_file" option set to true.


### API usage via core-cli:

A command line utility has been added for convenience, core-cli.

List all available tasks:
```
$ bundle exec ./core-cli.rb list
```

Start a task:
```
$ bundle exec ./core-cli.rb start dns_lookup_forward DnsRecord#intrigue.io
```

Start a task with options:
```
$ bundle exec ./core-cli.rb start dns_brute_sub DnsRecord#intrigue.io resolver=8.8.8.8#brute_list=1,2,3,4,www#use_permutations=true
[+] Starting task
[+] Task complete!
[+] Task Log:
[ ] : Got allowed option: resolver
[ ] : Allowed option: {:name=>"resolver", :type=>"String", :regex=>"ip_address", :default=>"8.8.8.8"}
[ ] : Regex should match an IP Address
[ ] : No need to convert resolver to a string
[+] : Allowed user_option! {"name"=>"resolver", "value"=>"8.8.8.8"}
[ ] : Got allowed option: brute_list
[ ] : Allowed option: {:name=>"brute_list", :type=>"String", :regex=>"alpha_numeric_list", :default=>["mx", "mx1", "mx2", "www", "ww2", "ns1", "ns2", "ns3", "test", "mail", "owa", "vpn", "admin", "intranet", "gateway", "secure", "admin", "service", "tools", "doc", "docs", "network", "help", "en", "sharepoint", "portal", "public", "private", "pub", "zeus", "mickey", "time", "web", "it", "my", "photos", "safe", "download", "dl", "search", "staging"]}
[ ] : Regex should match an alpha-numeric list
[ ] : No need to convert brute_list to a string
[+] : Allowed user_option! {"name"=>"brute_list", "value"=>"1,2,3,4,www"}
[ ] : Got allowed option: use_permutations
[ ] : Allowed option: {:name=>"use_permutations", :type=>"Boolean", :regex=>"boolean", :default=>true}
[ ] : Regex should match a boolean
[+] : Allowed user_option! {"name"=>"use_permutations", "value"=>true}
[ ] : user_options: [{"resolver"=>"8.8.8.8"}, {"brute_list"=>"1,2,3,4,www"}, {"use_permutations"=>true}]
[ ] : Task: dns_brute_sub
[ ] : Id: fddc7313-52f6-4d5a-9aad-fd39b0428ca5
[ ] : Task entity: {"type"=>"DnsRecord", "attributes"=>{"name"=>"intrigue.io"}}
[ ] : Task options: [{"resolver"=>"8.8.8.8"}, {"brute_list"=>"1,2,3,4,www"}, {"use_permutations"=>true}]
[ ] : Option configured: resolver=8.8.8.8
[ ] : Option configured: use_file=false
[ ] : Option configured: brute_file=dns_sub.list
[ ] : Option configured: use_mashed_domains=false
[ ] : Option configured: brute_list=1,2,3,4,www
[ ] : Option configured: use_permutations=true
[ ] : Using provided brute list
[+] : Using subdomain list: ["1", "2", "3", "4", "www"]
[+] : Looks like no wildcard dns. Moving on.
[-] : Hit exception: no address for 1.intrigue.io
[-] : Hit exception: no address for 2.intrigue.io
[-] : Hit exception: no address for 3.intrigue.io
[-] : Hit exception: no address for 4.intrigue.io
[+] : Resolved Address 192.0.78.13 for www.intrigue.io
[+] : Creating entity: DnsRecord, {:name=>"www.intrigue.io"}
[+] : Creating entity: IpAddress, {:name=>"192.0.78.13"}
[ ] : Adding permutations: www1, www2
[-] : Hit exception: no address for www1.intrigue.io
[-] : Hit exception: no address for www2.intrigue.io
[+] : Ship it!
```

Check for a list of subdomains on intrigue.io:
```
$ bundle exec ./core-cli.rb start dns_brute_sub DnsRecord#intrigue.io resolver=8.8.8.8#brute_list=a,b,c,proxy,test,www
```

Check the Alexa top 1000 domains for the existence of security headers:
```
$ for x in `cat data/domains.txt | head -n 1000`; do bundle exec ./core-cli.rb start dns_brute_sub DnsRecord#$x;done
```

### API usage via rubygem
[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/intrigue.svg)](http://badge.fury.io/rb/intrigue)

```
$ gem install intrigue-api-client
$ irb

> require 'intrigue-api-client'
> x =  Intrigue.new

  # Create an entity hash, must have a :type key
  # and (in the case of most tasks)  a :attributes key
  # with a hash containing a :name key (as shown below)
> entity = {
    :type => "String",
    :attributes => { :name => "intrigue.io"}
  }

  # Create a list of options (this can be empty)
> options_list = [
    { :name => "resolver", :value => "8.8.8.8" }
  ]

> x.start "example", entity_hash, options_list
> id  = x.start "example", entity_hash, options_list
> puts x.get_log id
> puts x.get_result id
```

### API usage via curl:

You can use the tried and true curl utility to request a task run. Specify the task type, specify an entity, and the appropriate options:

```
$ curl -s -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{ "task": "example", "entity": { "type": "String", "attributes": { "name": "8.8.8.8" } }, "options": {} }' http://127.0.0.1:7777/v1/task_runs
```

Commit message:

Updated README to add details around docker machine

README.md, after:

# Welcome, intrepid user!

WARNING: THAR BE DRAGONS! Intrigue is currently in ALPHA and requires some effort to get set up. We will be providing installation packages at some point in the future. If you're interested in helping test, please join the chat below:

[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/intrigueio/intrigue-core](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/intrigueio/intrigue-core?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

Intrigue-core is an API-first framework for attack surface discovery. It is primarily used for for Internet (security) reconnaissance and research.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/intrigueio/intrigue-core/develop/doc/home.png" width="700">

To get started, follow the instructions below!

### Setting up a development environment

Follow the appropriate setup guide:

 * Ubuntu Linux - https://github.com/intrigueio/intrigue-core/wiki/Setting-up-a-Test-Environment-on-Ubuntu-Linux
 * Kali Linux - https://github.com/intrigueio/intrigue-core/wiki/Setting-up-a-Test-Environment-on-Kali-Linux
 * OSX - https://github.com/intrigueio/intrigue-core/wiki/Setting-up-a-Test-Environment-on-OSX

### Setting up a development environment using docker & docker-compose:
```
# Clone the repository to your current directory
# Set up your config file first (this is optional, but preferrable)
$ cp config/config.json.default config/config.json

# Build the container and run it
$ docker-compose build && docker-compose up # and we're up on :7777
```

*PROTIP: Using Docker, we can add many sidekiq workers, allowing us to scale horizontally. To set up the Intrigue infrastructure, we've provided a minimal docker-compose.yml. This requires docker and docker-compose. Stop by the chat linked above if you're interested in more details.*

Now that you have a working environment, browse to the web interface.

### Using the web interface

To use the web interface, browse to http://127.0.0.1:7777

Please note that if you are using `docker-machine` to start the Intrigue API, the URL that you would need to access the Intrigue UI will be that `docker-machine`'s IP instead of `127.0.0.1`. So, just do a `docker-machine ls` and note the IP of your currently active and running docker machine. Then, after starting the Intrigue API/UI, navigate to that IP:7777.

Getting started should be pretty straightforward, try running a "dns_brute_sub" task on your domain. Now, try with the "use_file" option set to true.


### API usage via core-cli:

A command line utility has been added for convenience, core-cli.

List all available tasks:
```
$ bundle exec ./core-cli.rb list
```

Start a task:
```
$ bundle exec ./core-cli.rb start dns_lookup_forward DnsRecord#intrigue.io
```

Start a task with options:
```
$ bundle exec ./core-cli.rb start dns_brute_sub DnsRecord#intrigue.io resolver=8.8.8.8#brute_list=1,2,3,4,www#use_permutations=true
[+] Starting task
[+] Task complete!
[+] Task Log:
[ ] : Got allowed option: resolver
[ ] : Allowed option: {:name=>"resolver", :type=>"String", :regex=>"ip_address", :default=>"8.8.8.8"}
[ ] : Regex should match an IP Address
[ ] : No need to convert resolver to a string
[+] : Allowed user_option! {"name"=>"resolver", "value"=>"8.8.8.8"}
[ ] : Got allowed option: brute_list
[ ] : Allowed option: {:name=>"brute_list", :type=>"String", :regex=>"alpha_numeric_list", :default=>["mx", "mx1", "mx2", "www", "ww2", "ns1", "ns2", "ns3", "test", "mail", "owa", "vpn", "admin", "intranet", "gateway", "secure", "admin", "service", "tools", "doc", "docs", "network", "help", "en", "sharepoint", "portal", "public", "private", "pub", "zeus", "mickey", "time", "web", "it", "my", "photos", "safe", "download", "dl", "search", "staging"]}
[ ] : Regex should match an alpha-numeric list
[ ] : No need to convert brute_list to a string
[+] : Allowed user_option! {"name"=>"brute_list", "value"=>"1,2,3,4,www"}
[ ] : Got allowed option: use_permutations
[ ] : Allowed option: {:name=>"use_permutations", :type=>"Boolean", :regex=>"boolean", :default=>true}
[ ] : Regex should match a boolean
[+] : Allowed user_option! {"name"=>"use_permutations", "value"=>true}
[ ] : user_options: [{"resolver"=>"8.8.8.8"}, {"brute_list"=>"1,2,3,4,www"}, {"use_permutations"=>true}]
[ ] : Task: dns_brute_sub
[ ] : Id: fddc7313-52f6-4d5a-9aad-fd39b0428ca5
[ ] : Task entity: {"type"=>"DnsRecord", "attributes"=>{"name"=>"intrigue.io"}}
[ ] : Task options: [{"resolver"=>"8.8.8.8"}, {"brute_list"=>"1,2,3,4,www"}, {"use_permutations"=>true}]
[ ] : Option configured: resolver=8.8.8.8
[ ] : Option configured: use_file=false
[ ] : Option configured: brute_file=dns_sub.list
[ ] : Option configured: use_mashed_domains=false
[ ] : Option configured: brute_list=1,2,3,4,www
[ ] : Option configured: use_permutations=true
[ ] : Using provided brute list
[+] : Using subdomain list: ["1", "2", "3", "4", "www"]
[+] : Looks like no wildcard dns. Moving on.
[-] : Hit exception: no address for 1.intrigue.io
[-] : Hit exception: no address for 2.intrigue.io
[-] : Hit exception: no address for 3.intrigue.io
[-] : Hit exception: no address for 4.intrigue.io
[+] : Resolved Address 192.0.78.13 for www.intrigue.io
[+] : Creating entity: DnsRecord, {:name=>"www.intrigue.io"}
[+] : Creating entity: IpAddress, {:name=>"192.0.78.13"}
[ ] : Adding permutations: www1, www2
[-] : Hit exception: no address for www1.intrigue.io
[-] : Hit exception: no address for www2.intrigue.io
[+] : Ship it!
```

Check for a list of subdomains on intrigue.io:
```
$ bundle exec ./core-cli.rb start dns_brute_sub DnsRecord#intrigue.io resolver=8.8.8.8#brute_list=a,b,c,proxy,test,www
```

Check the Alexa top 1000 domains for the existence of security headers:
```
$ for x in `cat data/domains.txt | head -n 1000`; do bundle exec ./core-cli.rb start dns_brute_sub DnsRecord#$x;done
```

### API usage via rubygem
[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/intrigue.svg)](http://badge.fury.io/rb/intrigue)

```
$ gem install intrigue-api-client
$ irb

> require 'intrigue-api-client'
> x =  Intrigue.new

  # Create an entity hash, must have a :type key
  # and (in the case of most tasks)  a :attributes key
  # with a hash containing a :name key (as shown below)
> entity = {
    :type => "String",
    :attributes => { :name => "intrigue.io"}
  }

  # Create a list of options (this can be empty)
> options_list = [
    { :name => "resolver", :value => "8.8.8.8" }
  ]

> x.start "example", entity_hash, options_list
> id  = x.start "example", entity_hash, options_list
> puts x.get_log id
> puts x.get_result id
```

### API usage via curl:

You can use the tried and true curl utility to request a task run. Specify the task type, specify an entity, and the appropriate options:

```
$ curl -s -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{ "task": "example", "entity": { "type": "String", "attributes": { "name": "8.8.8.8" } }, "options": {} }' http://127.0.0.1:7777/v1/task_runs
```
